---
date: "2015-07-11T16:35:50+08:00"
title: "Out Modificators"
type: "exercise"
section: "exercise"
code: | 
    area[name=Passau];
    way(area)[name="Innstraße"];
    out geom;
instructions: |
    1. Modify our existing query to use a bare `out` statement by removing the `geom` modificator. Be careful not to remove the semicolon!
hint: Remove geom from the sample code.
answer: |
    area[name=Passau];
    way(area)[name="Innstraße"];
    out;

---

Incredibly good work!

“Thanks!” Bob said as he hopped on his bike. “I’ll be following this road to the observatory then!"
 
The last couple of exercises introduced quite a few things, namely, `way` and the `out geom` modificator.

A `Way` is another OSM element (like `node`) that describes a linear feature or area. Just accept that a `way` can also define areas for now. The relevant info that we need to learn is that a `way` is usually used to define roads, streams and highways, among other things. If you need to query for a route, or something that you think can’t be defined as a single ‘point’, it’s most likely a `way` element!

In OSM, Ways are represented just as a set of points. If you think about it, we can use a couple of points to define a line (which can be used to define routes). 

Since ways are represented internally as just a set of points, a `way` is actually just _an ordered list of nodes_! Awesome right? Because of this, we can actually query for the individual nodes in a way, though that’s not something we will do for now. 

You might have noticed that we used `out geom;` instead of our usual `out` statement in our latest query. What’s up with that?

To understand that, let’s talk about `out` first. The `out` statement is an called _action_, the only _action_ in the Overpass QL. What it does is to take the input set (the result set/data that preceeds it) and `print` it, so we can use the data (which we see in the map viewer).

So far, we have only used the bare `out` statement. What happens if we used `out` instead of `out geom` in our last query? Let’s try that!
